README.rst, before:

##################
python-pfconclient
##################

A Python3 client for the (flask-based) pfcon's web API.

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient


Overview
--------
This repository provides a Python3 client for the (flask-based) pfcon's web API.
The client provides both a Python programmatic interface and a standalone CLI tool called ``pfconclient``.


Installation
------------

.. code-block:: bash

    $> pip install -U python-pfconclient


pfcon server preconditions
--------------------------

These preconditions are only necessary to be able to test the client against an actual instance of the
(flask-based) pfcon server.

Install latest Docker and Docker Compose
========================================

Currently tested platforms:

- Ubuntu 18.04+ and MAC OS X 11.1+

Note: On a Linux machine make sure to add your computer user to the ``docker`` group

Fire up the full set of pfcon services
======================================

Open a terminal and run the following commands in any working directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> git clone https://github.com/FNNDSC/pfcon.git
    $> cd pfcon
    $> git checkout flask
    $> docker build -t local/pfcon:dev -f Dockerfile_dev .

Modify ``docker-compose_dev.yml`` to use ``local/pfcon:dev`` as the image for the ``pfcon_service``, then type:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> ./make.sh

You can later remove all the backend containers with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> cd pfcon
    $> ./unmake.sh


Usage
-----

Python programmatic interface
=============================

Instantiate the client:

.. code-block:: python

    from pfconclient import client

    cl = client.Client('http://localhost:5006/api/v1/')


Run ``fs`` plugin until finished using any local input directory and get the resulting files in a local output directory:

.. code-block:: python

    job_descriptors = {
        'cmd_args': '--saveinputmeta --saveoutputmeta --dir cube/uploads',
        'cmd_path_flags': '--dir',
        'auid': 'cube',
        'number_of_workers': 1,
        'cpu_limit': 1000,
        'memory_limit': 200,
        'gpu_limit': 0,
        'image': 'fnndsc/pl-simplefsapp',
        'selfexec': 'simplefsapp.py',
        'selfpath': '/usr/src/simplefsapp',
        'execshell': 'python3',
        'type': 'fs'
    }
    job_id = 'chris-jid-1'
    inputdir = '/tmp/sbin/in'
    outputdir = '/tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-1'
    cl.run_job(job_id, job_descriptors, inputdir, outputdir)

Run ``ds`` plugin until finished using the local output directory of a previous plugin as its input directory and get the resulting files in a local output directory:

.. code-block:: python

    job_descriptors = {
        'cmd_args': '--saveinputmeta --saveoutputmeta --prefix lolo',
        'auid': 'cube',
        'number_of_workers': 1,
        'cpu_limit': 1000,
        'memory_limit': 200,
        'gpu_limit': 0,
        'image': 'fnndsc/pl-simpledsapp',
        'selfexec': 'simpledsapp.py',
        'selfpath': '/usr/src/simpledsapp',
        'execshell': 'python3',
        'type': 'ds'
    }
    job_id = 'chris-jid-2'
    inputdir = '/tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-1'
    outputdir = '/tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-2'
    cl.run_job(job_id, job_descriptors, inputdir, outputdir)

Visit the `Python programmatic interface`_ wiki page to learn more about the client's programmatic API.

.. _`Python programmatic interface`: https://github.com/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient/wiki/Python-programmatic-interface


Standalone CLI client tool
==========================

Run ``fs`` plugin until finished using any local input directory and get the resulting files in a local output directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> pfconclient http://localhost:5006/api/v1/ chris-jid-3 run --cmd_args '--saveinputmeta --saveoutputmeta --dir cube/uploads'
       --cmd_path_flags='--dir' --auid cube --number_of_workers 1 --cpu_limit 1000 --memory_limit 200 --gpu_limit 0 --image fnndsc/pl-simplefsapp
       --selfexec simplefsapp.py --selfpath /usr/src/simplefsapp --execshell python3 --type fs /tmp/sbin/in /tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-3


Run ``ds`` plugin until finished using the local output directory of a previous plugin as its input directory and get the resulting files in a local output directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> pfconclient http://localhost:5006/api/v1/ chris-jid-4 run --cmd_args '--saveinputmeta --saveoutputmeta --prefix lolo'
       --auid cube --number_of_workers 1 --cpu_limit 1000 --memory_limit 200 --gpu_limit 0 --image fnndsc/pl-simpledsapp
       --selfexec simpledsapp.py --selfpath /usr/src/simpledsapp --execshell python3 --type ds /tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-3 /tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-4

Visit the `standalone CLI client`_ wiki page to learn more about the CLI client.

.. _`standalone CLI client`: https://github.com/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient/wiki/Standalone-CLI-client-tool


Development and testing
-----------------------

Optionally setup a virtual environment
======================================

Install ``virtualenv`` and ``virtualenvwrapper``

.. code-block:: bash

    $> pip3 install -U virtualenv virtualenvwrapper

Create a directory for your virtual environments e.g.:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> mkdir ~/Python_Envs

You might want to add the following two lines to your ``.bashrc`` file:

.. code-block:: bash

    export WORKON_HOME=~/Python_Envs
    source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

Then source your ``.bashrc`` and create a new Python3 virtual environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> mkvirtualenv --python=python3 pfcon_client_env

To activate pfcon_client_env:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> workon pfcon_client_env

To deactivate pfcon_client_env:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> deactivate


Clone the repo
==============

.. code-block:: bash

    $> git clone https://github.com/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient.git
    $> cd python-pfconclient
    $> workon pfcon_client_env


Run automated tests
===================

.. code-block:: bash

    $> cd python-pfconclient
    $> workon pfcon_client_env
    $> pip install -U nose
    $> python setup.py nosetests

Commit message:

Add information about flags with arguments of type 'path' or 'unextpath'

README.rst, after:

##################
python-pfconclient
##################

A Python3 client for the (flask-based) pfcon's web API.

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient


Overview
--------
This repository provides a Python3 client for the (flask-based) pfcon's web API.
The client provides both a Python programmatic interface and a standalone CLI tool called ``pfconclient``.


Installation
------------

.. code-block:: bash

    $> pip install -U python-pfconclient


pfcon server preconditions
--------------------------

These preconditions are only necessary to be able to test the client against an actual instance of the
(flask-based) pfcon server.

Install latest Docker and Docker Compose
========================================

Currently tested platforms:

- Ubuntu 18.04+ and MAC OS X 11.1+

Note: On a Linux machine make sure to add your computer user to the ``docker`` group

Fire up the full set of pfcon services
======================================

Open a terminal and run the following commands in any working directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> git clone https://github.com/FNNDSC/pfcon.git
    $> cd pfcon
    $> git checkout flask
    $> docker build -t local/pfcon:dev -f Dockerfile_dev .

Modify ``docker-compose_dev.yml`` to use ``local/pfcon:dev`` as the image for the ``pfcon_service``, then type:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> ./make.sh

You can later remove all the backend containers with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> cd pfcon
    $> ./unmake.sh


Usage
-----

Python programmatic interface
=============================

Instantiate the client:

.. code-block:: python

    from pfconclient import client

    cl = client.Client('http://localhost:5006/api/v1/')


Run ``fs`` plugin until finished using any local input directory and get the resulting files in a local output directory:

.. code-block:: python

    job_descriptors = {
        'cmd_args': '--saveinputmeta --saveoutputmeta --dir cube/uploads',
        'cmd_path_flags': '--dir',  # comma separated list of flags with arguments of type 'path' or 'unextpath'
        'auid': 'cube',
        'number_of_workers': 1,
        'cpu_limit': 1000,
        'memory_limit': 200,
        'gpu_limit': 0,
        'image': 'fnndsc/pl-simplefsapp',
        'selfexec': 'simplefsapp.py',
        'selfpath': '/usr/src/simplefsapp',
        'execshell': 'python3',
        'type': 'fs'
    }
    job_id = 'chris-jid-1'
    inputdir = '/tmp/sbin/in'
    outputdir = '/tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-1'
    cl.run_job(job_id, job_descriptors, inputdir, outputdir)

Run ``ds`` plugin until finished using the local output directory of a previous plugin as its input directory and get the resulting files in a local output directory:

.. code-block:: python

    job_descriptors = {
        'cmd_args': '--saveinputmeta --saveoutputmeta --prefix lolo',
        'auid': 'cube',
        'number_of_workers': 1,
        'cpu_limit': 1000,
        'memory_limit': 200,
        'gpu_limit': 0,
        'image': 'fnndsc/pl-simpledsapp',
        'selfexec': 'simpledsapp.py',
        'selfpath': '/usr/src/simpledsapp',
        'execshell': 'python3',
        'type': 'ds'
    }
    job_id = 'chris-jid-2'
    inputdir = '/tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-1'
    outputdir = '/tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-2'
    cl.run_job(job_id, job_descriptors, inputdir, outputdir)

Visit the `Python programmatic interface`_ wiki page to learn more about the client's programmatic API.

.. _`Python programmatic interface`: https://github.com/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient/wiki/Python-programmatic-interface


Standalone CLI client tool
==========================

Run ``fs`` plugin until finished using any local input directory and get the resulting files in a local output directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> pfconclient http://localhost:5006/api/v1/ chris-jid-3 run --cmd_args '--saveinputmeta --saveoutputmeta --dir cube/uploads'
       --cmd_path_flags='--dir' --auid cube --number_of_workers 1 --cpu_limit 1000 --memory_limit 200 --gpu_limit 0 --image fnndsc/pl-simplefsapp
       --selfexec simplefsapp.py --selfpath /usr/src/simplefsapp --execshell python3 --type fs /tmp/sbin/in /tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-3


Run ``ds`` plugin until finished using the local output directory of a previous plugin as its input directory and get the resulting files in a local output directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> pfconclient http://localhost:5006/api/v1/ chris-jid-4 run --cmd_args '--saveinputmeta --saveoutputmeta --prefix lolo'
       --auid cube --number_of_workers 1 --cpu_limit 1000 --memory_limit 200 --gpu_limit 0 --image fnndsc/pl-simpledsapp
       --selfexec simpledsapp.py --selfpath /usr/src/simpledsapp --execshell python3 --type ds /tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-3 /tmp/sbin/out/chris-jid-4

Visit the `standalone CLI client`_ wiki page to learn more about the CLI client.

.. _`standalone CLI client`: https://github.com/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient/wiki/Standalone-CLI-client-tool


Arguments of type ``path`` or ``unextpath``
===========================================

If a plugin's ``cmd_args`` string contains flags with arguments of type ``path`` or ``unextpath`` then those flags should be included
in the optional ``cmd_path_flags`` string. This string represents a comma separated list of flags. This way ``pfcon`` server will
know that it has to substitute the local path specified by the flag by an actual path in the cloud.


Development and testing
-----------------------

Optionally setup a virtual environment
======================================

Install ``virtualenv`` and ``virtualenvwrapper``

.. code-block:: bash

    $> pip3 install -U virtualenv virtualenvwrapper

Create a directory for your virtual environments e.g.:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> mkdir ~/Python_Envs

You might want to add the following two lines to your ``.bashrc`` file:

.. code-block:: bash

    export WORKON_HOME=~/Python_Envs
    source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

Then source your ``.bashrc`` and create a new Python3 virtual environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> mkvirtualenv --python=python3 pfcon_client_env

To activate pfcon_client_env:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> workon pfcon_client_env

To deactivate pfcon_client_env:

.. code-block:: bash

    $> deactivate


Clone the repo
==============

.. code-block:: bash

    $> git clone https://github.com/FNNDSC/python-pfconclient.git
    $> cd python-pfconclient
    $> workon pfcon_client_env


Run automated tests
===================

.. code-block:: bash

    $> cd python-pfconclient
    $> workon pfcon_client_env
    $> pip install -U nose
    $> python setup.py nosetests
